Hosted launch: Overview and architecture updates (#2308)
astronomer/docs: astro/features.md

description: Set environment variables on Astro to specify Airflow configurations and custom logic.
---

Astro offers a suite of first-class features that make it easy to author, run, and monitor data pipelines.

## Feature list

- Worker auto-scaling, powered by the Airflow Celery executor and KEDA. See [Worker queues](configure-worker-queues.md).
- Astro Runtime, a collection of Docker images that provides a differentiated data orchestration experience. See [Runtime image architecture](runtime-image-architecture.md).
- Timely support for the latest major, minor, and patch versions of the Apache Airflow open source project.
- Support for role-based access control (RBAC) and single sign-on (SSO) for secure user management and authentication. See [Configure an identity provider (IdP)](configure-idp.md) and [User permissions](user-permissions.md).
- An observability experience that gives you data lineage across your ecosystem as well as real-time insight into the health and resource consumption of your data pipelines on Astro. See [Data lineage](data-lineage.md) and [Deployment metrics](deployment-metrics.md).

> - - A suite of automation tools for programmatically managing Airflow environments across teams and development cycles. See [CI/CD](ci-cd-templates/template-overview.md) and [Manage Deployments as code](manage-deployments-as-code.md).

Author: ```suggestion
- A toolset for programmatically managing Airflow environments across teams and development cycles. See [CI/CD](ci-cd-templates/template-overview.md) and [Manage Deployments as code](manage-deployments-as-code.md).
```
